This is your complete guide to growing
your Instagram following in 2026
starting from zero followers. Before we
even start talking about Instagram,
specifically what buttons to press and
what posts to post, we need to lay the
foundation that our Instagram and our
future business will be built on.
Whether you plan on selling something
someday, building a personal brand,
becoming a content creator, growing your
following starts with identifying your
niche. Now, personally, I define niche
in two parts. It's the who and the what.
The who is the demographics. Who are you
going to be posting for? And when I say
demographics, I want you to consider
every possible thing about this person.
I'm not saying that every possible thing
about them needs to matter, but it's
something you should at least consider.
What's their age? What's their marital
status? Do they have kids? What are
their challenges? What's their level of
education? What's their level of
employment? All of these different
factors are things that you can consider
because these differences are going to
change how you are posting and what
you're posting about. For example, if
you are in the weight loss area of
fitness, you are going to post very
different content if you're posting for
men in their 20s than if you're posting
for moms in their 40s. And both of those
will be very different than if you're
posting for people who are over the age
of 65. If you're posting weight loss
content for moms in their 40s, it's
going to be very different content if
they are stay-at-home moms versus
working moms. It's going to be very
different if they are new moms versus
empty nesters. It's going to be very
different if they are moms who are
married versus single moms. It's going
to be very different if it's at home
workouts versus in the gym workouts. So,
you can already see that all of these
different minor details are going to
slightly vary what exactly you are going
to be posting. The what is a little bit
more self-explanatory. the what is the
specific thing that you're going to be
posting about. Now, if you have
absolutely no idea what your niche is,
it's okay when you're first getting
started to just kind of post a little
bit about everything until you figure
out what you really love to talk about
and what you really love to create
content around. But some helpful
questions that you can ask yourself
before you start this random posting and
experimentation are number one, what do
people already ask me for help with
without me even having to prompt them?
Think about your DMs, your texts, your
conversations with your friends, your
co-workers, your family members. What
are the things that people are always
coming to you for? Number two, what
problem can I explain or solve faster or
clearer than most other people? If you
can simplify something that is
confusing, that's nicheworthy. Number
three, who do I enjoy helping the most
and or what topic do I enjoy talking
about the most? like is there something
that you just can't shut up about or is
there a group of people who you just
love working with? You really feel like
you have a calling to serve? Answering
that might be helpful in identifying
your niche. Number four, what have I
personally struggled with and figured
out? I think that this is a really
important distinction that I need to
make here because so many of us have
imposttor syndrome when we're niching
down. But I believe that niching down
actually can cure imposter syndrome. I
was working with a woman recently and we
were helping her niche down and we were
talking about different interests she
has and different industries that she
might want to be a part of and she
talked about how she's a marathoner.
She's done multiple marathon runs. She's
a mom of three under three. And when I
said, "Oh my gosh, this is perfect. You
need to start posting more about
running. It's something you love. It's
something you don't want to shut up
about. It's something you have a lot of
experience with." But she felt this
imposttor syndrome. And she told me
that, you know, Brock, I'm not a run
influencer. Like I see these people who
are like, you know, running at marathons
and they like have all these vlog
cameras or they are the owners of run
clubs themselves or they do like brand
deals and sponsorships with Nike and
that's just not me. And I said, 'Great,
that shouldn't be you. Because there are
probably lots of other moms in their 40s
with young kids just like you who don't
want to look up to the chiseled six-pack
abs of some 23-year-old dude who's a run
influencer, or some 19-year-old girl who
graduated high school last year and now
she's a run influencer and she does
marathons. No offense to those people.
Those people are the perfect run
influencers and run creators for some
people to follow, but they're not for
everyone. And that's really what niche
allows. Niche allows you to be someone's
cup of tea. You don't have to be
everyone's cup of tea, but you're
someone's cup of tea. And by niching
down, instead of saying that she's a run
influencer who just posts about all
things running, she instead was niching
down specifically to talk about running
and training for your first 10K race as
a mom in her 40s with young kids. Now,
if you're a mom in their 40s with young
kids and you're training for your first
10K, you know, to follow this client of
mine. And the fifth question is, what's
something that I could create 50 posts
about without feeling like I have to
force it? Because content is kind of
like a fart. If you have to force it,
it's usually The final thing I will say
about niche is that having a clear niche
is essential for growth because the
niche is why we follow people. According
to a recent report from Many Chat, the
number one reason why we follow people
is because they post content I find
consistently useful or entertaining. And
unfortunately, when you post about a
wide variety of things, you post your
date night selfie, you post what you had
for lunch, you post your workout, you
post what your kid did on their first
day of school, when you post about all
these different topics, people can't
find that consistently useful or
entertaining, unless you're just an
amazing entertainer. Like, if you're an
amazing entertainer, you just like
create great content, you're an amazing
storyteller, you have a big personality
and a lot of charisma, great. You can
probably stop watching this episode
right now and just go out there and be
your loud, creative, outgoing, exuberant
self. But more than likely, you're like
most of us, which is that you're not,
you know, Ryan Gosling. You don't have
this amazing charisma. You're not uh
Dwayne the Rock Johnson. You're not Kim
Kardashian. You're not someone who they
can just like boom. Your personality is
just so worth watching. And so instead,
I want you to niche down. I want you to
pick one group of people and one
specific topic to post about. That way
that group of people can find you,
follow you, and they can fall in love
with you because they find you
consistently valuable, educational, or
useful. And I lied. There's actually one
final thing I wanted to say about niche
before we move on. The more you niche
down, the faster you will grow and the
greater your income potential will be.
There's this great and now infamous
article called 10,00 true fans. And the
article essentially makes the argument
that all you need is 1,000 true fans in
order to have a successful business. All
you need is 1,000 true fans to make six
figures every single year. And one of
the best strategies for generating true
fans or super fans, as my friend Pat
Flynn calls them, is by niching down.
When you have a clear niche, people can
flock to you. They can fall in love with
you. they can keep coming back and
binging your content because they know
it was specifically made for them. And
guess what? If there's someone who
doesn't perfectly fit in your niche, but
they still enjoy your content. They
still find it educational or valuable,
they'll still follow and they'll
probably still become customers. Let's
go back to that example of the mom who
is a mom of three under three helping
other moms in their 40s train for their
first 10K. If you're a mom of three
under three and you're not training for
a 10K, but you just want to get into
running, you're probably going to follow
her. If you're a mom of one kid or four
kids or six kids and you just want to
get into running or you want to run your
first 10K or you want to run your first
half marathon and you find her page,
well then you're probably still going to
follow and you're probably still going
to become a customer. But because she
has that specific niche, it gives her
clarity as to what to post about and it
gives her core group of super fans
clarity as to why they should follow
her. All of that was step number one for
growing on Instagram. Step number two is
we got to set up our profile, right? If
we have a new business, we have a new
storefront, we want people to come in,
we're going to do a big grand opening
and cut the red ribbons, we got to set
up the store first. We can't cut the red
ribbons and be like, "Everyone come on
in grand opening." And there's nothing
there. We got to make sure things are
set up. So, let's set up our profile
before we even make our first post. I
have what I call the ABCs of the
optimized Instagram profile. The A
stands for an attentiongrabbing profile
picture. If you are building this
Instagram account around yourself,
Allah, a personal brand, then you want
your profile picture to be a photo of
you, a close-up, highquality, well-lit
selfie, preferably on a solid color
background with no extra props or
anything distracting in the image. If
you're building an Instagram account
around a business, then I would
recommend having an icon version of your
logo as the profile picture. Far too
often I see business owners put their
entire logo and like shrink it down with
the logo and established in and the
tagline and the location in the little
profile picture. No, no, no. We need
just an icon version of the logo in
order to achieve an attentiongrabbing
profile picture. The B stands for the
bio beginning. Most people are just
skimming or speedreading your bio.
They're just kind of glancing at it. And
so the first sentence of your bio is the
most important. Your first sentence of
your bio is where you go back to step
one. You take your niche, the who and
the what, and you basically plug it into
a sentence in the first sentence of your
bio. Something along the lines of, I
help who with what. I help small
business owners grow via Instagram
stories. I help beginner rock climbers
climb their first I don't know. I'm not
a rock climber. I don't know that niche.
But you get the point. Feel free to use
chatbt or any other AI tool to help you
come up with a more creative first
sentence. But you really want it to
articulate the who and the what so that
those people are immediately
understanding that you are for them. The
C stands for a few different things. It
stands for clear and concise because I
want your bio to be not long- winded. I
don't want it to be redundant. I don't
want it to have multiple versions of the
same word. Like, I help moms over 40 get
fit, be healthy, get lean, lose weight,
build muscle. You just said the same
thing like five different ways. Just say
it one way. And which of those five
should you say? You should say the one
that is the most clear and the one that
your ideal target audience uses the
most. So, if you're trying to build an
audience of moms over 40 and the actual
phrase that comes out of their mouth the
most often is, I want to get lean, then
that is what you should put in that
sentence. The final thing that C stands
for is no cliches. Far too often I see
things like live your best life, get
healthy, live, laugh, love, or whatever
your favorite little cliche is in the
bio. It's a waste of time. It's
non-specific. It's meaningless. and it
takes up valuable real estate. So, take
it out. And while you're at it, take out
any of those fun facts that are
non-niche related, like mom of three fur
babies, Virgo, skier, wine lover, hubby,
xx, v l i i v l i. If you wouldn't say
it to someone in an elevator, don't put
it in your bio. And then the s of the
ABCs, I know it's abc d, but I snuck in
the apostrophe s because it just it
works with the acronym. So, the s of the
abcs is maybe the most important part,
and it is searchable. Now, any text that
you put anywhere on your Instagram
profile aids in your searchability. Like
Google and Instagram and all these other
platforms, they can theoretically find
you if you put a keyword anywhere in
your bio. But there's only two places in
your entire bio that are word for word
searchable. Meaning that any word, any
keyword, any phrase, any letter that you
put on these two lines becomes a direct
way that people can discover you. The
first one is your username. That one
makes sense. I am Brock 11 Johnson. That
means that no one else can be Brock 11
Johnson. And if you search Brock 11
Johnson, you will find me. The problem
with the username is that it has to be
one of a kind. So now that I'm Brock 11
Johnson, no one else can be Brock 11
Johnson. One of our students is at
juicing recipes, which is amazing.
Congratulations to her. She got lucky
enough to snag that username while it
was still available. So as someone who
posts recipes for juicing, great. She
has that. But now no one else can have
that. If you post juicing recipes
yourself, that username is taken. The
solution is the second searchable line,
which is called your Instagram name.
Your Instagram name is unique because it
doesn't have to be unique. Your
Instagram name could be the same as my
Instagram name and the same as hundreds
of thousands of other people's Instagram
names, which means that all of us are
searchable if people type in the
keywords on that line. So, if you want
to be discovered via Google, which you
do, if you want to come up in more
Instagram searches, which you do, you
need to put a searchable title or
keywords on this line in order to make
your Instagram discoverable. At this
stage, I recommend using a tool like
answerthepub.com
or Google Trends to research different
keywords and figure out what are people
actually looking up that relates to me
and my niche and what I do. Once you
have the ABCs done, I want you to create
and post 15 posts onto your Instagram
feed. Now, a little bit later, we're
going to talk more about what makes a
good post, what should go in these 15
posts, but part of setting up shop is
you want to have merchandise out, right?
If I'm launching a doughnut shop, I
can't just say, "Hey, everyone come in."
And there's no donuts. There have to be
donuts. And so, there have to be posts
on the feed. There have to be posts that
you have already posted before you even
make the announcement. Before you even
try to grow the account, there needs to
be posts that are already up there. And
so, I know this feels counterintuitive
and it's going to feel a little weird,
posting, but not really caring if anyone
sees them. Posting without the intention
of these posts getting views or
engagement, but there needs to be 15
posts. Basically, something for people
to look at when you do announce and
officially cut the ribbon on this
Instagram account. Of those 15 posts,
you're going to pin three of them to the
top of your profile. And the three pin
posts need to be number one about me
slashstart here slashabout our business.
This is a post that as the title
describes kind of just gives an overview
as to what people can expect from you or
your account. The second post, it can be
background or additional information
about you or your business, but ideally
the second pinned post is one that
provides a quick win. Basically, when
people watch this post, when they
consume it, they get immediate value.
They don't have to put in their email.
They don't have to engage. They don't
have to do anything else. They
immediately learn something, have an aha
moment, or just experience an immediate
benefit. And then the third and final
pinned post is one that is related to
your business. Ideally, this would be a
post that has some sort of business
related call to action like comment a
keyword to receive something or click
the link in my bio or, you know, visit
some URL, visit some website. Basically,
a post that generates actual business.
It's not just generating followers or
engagement. It's actually taking the
existing followers or engagement and
then converting. Okay, now what? Once
you have that done, you're done with
step two and ready to move on to step
three, which is where the fun starts.
Step number three is to create 14 post.
Now, I said create. You're going to
create these posts, but you're not going
to post them yet. I also want to give a
disclaimer at this point. We haven't
announced our new Instagram account.
We're not even necessarily trying to
grow it yet. We're still getting it set
up. We're still just pulling the uh
bungee cord back before we let go of the
slingshot, right? We're still in this
preparation phase. So, the fourth step
in this preparation phase before we
actually launch is to create 14 posts.
And again, in just a minute, I will talk
to you more about making these posts,
what they should look like, what makes a
good post versus a bad post, all of
that. But you're going to create 14
posts, but not post them yet. You're
just going to hold on to them and store
them. Step number four is you're going
to sign up for two tools. There are two
tools that you need. And there are, I
guess, some softwares out there now that
can do both of these in one software,
but basically two different third-party
tools you need. And whether you get
these from separate or the same doesn't
really matter to me. The first one is a
scheduling tool. I recommend using
metricool. It's what I use to schedule
all of my posts. And number two is a
tool that does DM automation. I
recommend manyhat because it's the most
popular and most widely used. It is the
only DM automation tool that is an
officially approved partner of Meta. And
I just really love their advanced tools
and capabilities. Plus, I've been using
it for like seven years now, which is
pretty crazy to say out loud. But you
need those two tools. You need a tool
that allows you to schedule posts, and
you need a tool that allows you to do DM
automation. DM automation is something
that will be really, really important
down the line for sales and engagement.
It's a little bit less important for
growth. So, if you want to prioritize
one of these tools to start, start with
the scheduling tool. And I would
recommend the DM automation tool, but
that can be second or maybe a few months
down the line if you don't quite have
the budget for it right now. Okay. Step
number five is to schedule those 14
posts. So, remember step three is we
created 14 posts, but I told you not to
post them yet. Step number five is we're
going to actually schedule those posts.
We're going to schedule them one per day
after whatever day you decide to launch.
So, if you're going to launch your new
Instagram account on March 1st, then
you're going to schedule one post per
day from March 1st through March 14th.
What time should I schedule the post
for? It doesn't really matter. There is
no such thing as a universal best time
to post. According to HubSpot, the best
time to post is 6:00 to 9:00 p.m.
According to Sprouto, the best time is
11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. According to
Hootsweet, it varies depending on the
day of the week. According to Buffer,
it's 3:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. And
according to Social Pilot, it's 6 to 8
a.m. So, no, there is no such thing. All
of these different scheduling platforms
and all these different social media
research agencies, they all come up with
different best times to post. The best
time to post is the time that works for
you. The best time to post is the time
that will help you stay consistent.
Sure, overtime you might learn, hey, my
audience is more active in the mornings.
Hey, my audience is more online in the
evenings, but they're more engaged in
the midday. Hey, my audience actually
responds really well when I post at 2
a.m. You might find that over time, but
when you're first getting started, don't
sweat the best time to post. That would
be like if you were getting started in
the gym and you were like trying to uh
you know build muscle and that was like
your New Year's resolution was to you
lose weight, build muscle and get fit
and you were like, "Hey personal
trainer, what's the best time to work
out?" Like sure, there's theoretically a
time of day where like your endorphins
might be higher or like your different
hormones might be in a better alignment
to build strength, but like getting your
workout done is better than missing your
workout for an entire day because you
can't work out at the perfect time. So,
don't worry about a perfect time to
post. Just schedule your posts one a day
for the next 14 days. That was step
number five. Step number six is to
announce your new account on any other
socials that you have. If you have an
email list, this would be the time to
use it. If you have a social media
following on any other apps, now would
be the time to use it. If you have an
old Instagram account, now is the time
to say, "Hey, I have this new account."
When you are announcing this new
account, I want you to be very clear.
Whether you're sending an email
broadcast, making a social post on a
different social media app, on a
different Instagram account, whatever, I
want you to be very clear and I want you
to say, "Only follow me if you are
interested in blank." Because what could
happen and what often times does happen
is people say, "New Instagram account,
go follow me." And it's just like super
vague. Now, I have to do research to
figure out if I want to follow this new
account. Not going to happen. Or I see
you make that announcement, "New
Instagram account, go follow me." And
because I'm a friend of yours, because
I'm someone who knows you in real life,
because I'm a family member of yours and
I want to be a supporter, I go follow
that new account. But in reality, I
don't really care about that niche. I
don't really care about those posts. I
don't really care to learn to run my
first 10K as a mom of three under three.
And so even though I followed, I'm
probably never going to engage with the
content. And even worse, Instagram's
probably never even going to show me the
content because Instagram knows while I
am a supporter of you, I don't really
care for that type of post. And so I'm
not going to see it. I'm not going to
engage and I'm just going to hurt your
engagement rate. And so you can even be
very clear and direct and be like, "Hey,
if you're a family friend of mine, if
you're someone who knows me, don't feel
obligated to follow me. Only follow this
new account if you actually want more
content about X, Y, and Z." That way,
even though you might have fewer
followers at the start, you might have
fewer people jumping from your old
account to your new account, you're
going to have a better quality of
followers, someone who is actually going
to stay engaged. And don't just announce
the new account once, announce it over
and over again. And of course, you don't
want to spam your audience. But if you
have, let's say, an old Instagram
account that you're not really going to
be using anymore, and you're going to be
focused on this new Instagram account,
well, then you don't really care what
happens with the old one. You might as
well spam it. You might as well drive it
in the ground. You might as well post
over and over again telling people to go
follow the new one until everyone hears
the message loud and clear. Don't think
just because you made one post or sent
one email or sent one group text about
your new Instagram account, that's all
you need to do. Keep talking about it
over and over and over again until
you're satisfied with the number of
people who have come over to the new
account. Step number seven, which by the
way, I should have said this earlier,
there's only eight steps, so you're
almost done. Step number seven is to
create and start posting some sort of
daily challenge, some sort of daily
series. Now, if you've been a subscriber
of this podcast for a while, you've
probably heard me talk about this
before. If you're not a subscriber or if
you're not sure you're a subscriber,
please double check right now because
we're super close to 100K and you would
be shocked at how many people watch or
listen every single week, but they're
not actually subscribed. So, please
double check for me right now. But what
I've been talking about for the last few
months is essentially the idea of
creating some sort of daily post that
can build upon itself. A few different
ideas are day x of blank every day until
blank. My example is day X of reviewing
one person's reel every single day until
I reach 1 million followers. That's a
challenge I'm doing over on my
Instagram.
>> Day 1, day 2, day three, day four, day
five, day six, day seven, day eight, day
9, day 10, day 11 of reviewing one of my
followers reels every single day until I
reach 1 million followers. Today's
winner is Mandy Aaron. My first piece of
feedback is that from looking at your
profile, this isn't you. Another example
template of these daily challenge is
some sort of verb for every new follower
I gain. Basically doing something
different for every new follower I gain.
One of our Insta Club of students went
from 48 to 4,800 followers in 5 days
because she started a challenge where
she was going to be sending a prayer,
like a voice note, personalized prayer
to every single new follower. I'm going
to list off a bunch of different
examples of daily challenges. Feel free
to customize these, tweak them, make
them your own. and use Chat GPT or the
Brockbot to help you brainstorm your
own. But I'll just read them off now.
Running one step for every follower that
I gained yesterday. Day X of trying a
new hairstyle every day until I reached
10K followers. Day X of petting my dog
for every follower that I gained
yesterday. Day X of sharing a different
insane quote from a tech CEO every day
of 2026. Doing one push-up for every
follower that I gain. Doing one pull-up.
Doing one burpee. doing one whatever for
every follow that I gain. Day X of stuff
that rules. He's a guy who's just
listing off five things that rule every
single day. Day X of Door Dashing for a
diamond ring. He's a guy who is trying
to raise money to purchase an engagement
ring for his wife and he's doing it
through door dash and he's documenting
how much money he's making each day. Day
X of walking for as many minutes as I
scrolled yesterday. Day X of testing
unethical business ideas. All right,
cool. Hopefully you're feeling inspired.
But again, step number seven is to come
up with some sort of daily challenge,
something that you can do every single
day. And it would be awesome if you tied
some follower goal to it. Maybe it's
1,000 followers, maybe it's 10K.
Probably shouldn't be anything much
higher than that. Maybe 50. I don't
think you should go 100K because that's
a pretty pretty big lofty goal. But
starting some sort of daily challenge or
series does a few things. Number one, it
really incentivizes engagement and
incentivizes people to follow you.
Number two, it creates brand
recognition. you're the person who
always posts about this. You're the guy
who's doing the push-ups. You are the
guy who's petting his dog. You're the
girl who is trying to raise money for
that thing. It creates that recognition.
And then number three, it just gives you
something to post about every single day
that you don't have to think so hard
about. All right. And our final step to
growing your Instagram from scratch in
2026 is to post a lot of good posts.
Now, you can probably tell by the little
timer bar down here that even though
this is the last tip, we're not quite
done yet. But posting a lot of good
posts is ultimately how you grow on
social media. It's how you grow on
Instagram. If you take nothing else away
from this episode, it's that if you want
to grow, you have to post a lot of good
posts. Is it possible to grow if you
don't post a lot? You just post good
posts. Sure, but it's going to take
longer. Statistically speaking, it has
been proven that the more you post, the
more you grow. So, conversely, the less
you post or the fewer times you post,
the less you will grow. Is it possible
to grow posting once a week or even just
once a month? Sure, but it's a lot less
likely. It's a lot less common. It's a
lot tougher. On the other hand, is it
possible to grow if you don't post good
post, but you just post a lot? Uh,
technically, sure. Like, eventually
you'll have something go viral.
Eventually, you'll gain some followers.
But why would you try to post bad post?
I'm not encouraging you to post. I'm not
encouraging you to post slop. I'm not
encouraging you to post bad posts. And I
don't think that's what you're trying to
do. I don't think that was a thought
that even crossed your mind. I think
most people are actually too far down
the spectrum trying to overanalyze their
posts. And when I say post a good post,
I purely mean good. I don't mean great.
I don't mean exceptional. I don't mean
A+ touchdown, slam dunk, home run. I
simply mean good. I think most of us are
way too much of perfectionists when it
comes to the content that we are
posting. We overanalyze, we overedit,
and we overcritique every single post
that we make. And it's this analysis
paralysis that leads to burnout, not
overposting. It's the overanalyzing, the
overthinking. It's this like, oh, is
this good enough? That is what
ultimately leads to burnout. And that's
what leads people to stop posting
altogether. And so, I want you to post a
lot of good posts. Let's talk about both
of those things. Let's talk about first
of all, what even is a good post? What
makes a post good by my definition? And
then we'll talk about how do you make a
lot of them? How can you work smarter
and not harder? How can you scale your
output without having to change your
input? That's what we're going to be
talking about for the remainder of
today's episode. Which, by the way, if
you haven't already, make sure to give
this episode a thumbs up. If you've
already learned something new, if you've
already felt like there was something
valuable in today's episode, hit that
thumbs up button. But let's get into
what makes a good post good. Number one
is something called the 2cond rule. The
two-cond rule is a rule that
specifically applies to video content.
So, if you're posting any reals on your
Instagram, this is going to apply to
those. And the two second rule is that
there should be something happening,
something changing, some sort of cut,
transition, sound effect, something on
the screen or in the audio every two
seconds. And I know that sounds
absolutely crazy, but the next time
you're watching Netflix or next time
you're watching a movie or any TV show,
try to count out loud how long it takes
before there's a change. And I bet
you'll struggle to get to 3 seconds
because every 2 seconds there's going to
be something happening on the screen. I
know it sounds crazy, but fact check me.
Try it for yourself. This is done
because the really high paid people who
produce movies and TV shows know that
our attention spans are horrible. And if
they don't have something happening
every 2 seconds, we're going to get
bored. We're going to look away and
we're going to pull out our phone and
keep scrolling. I mean, I bet while
you're watching or listening today, you
have probably been doing at least one
other thing. Folding the laundry, doing
the dishes, scrolling on your phone,
maybe you're driving to work. I bet
you're doing at least one other thing,
if not multiple other things, while
watching/listing to today's episode.
Number two, they follow what's called
the drunk grandma rule. The drunk
grandma rule relates to how simple your
post should be. Oftentimes we try to
make our posts too complex, too smart,
too big wig. We try to use fancy
acronyms and terms that most people
don't understand when instead we need to
simplify our posts so that they are so
digestible, so understandable they could
be understood by a drunk grandma. And
this is not because you want drunk
grandmas to literally follow you. This
is not because your followers are dumb
or you're trying to attract a dumb
audience. This is because, again, most
people are distracted. Most people are
not giving you their full attention. and
most people are seeing thousands of
posts every single day. And so by
simplifying your post, you make it
easier for people to actually pay
attention to. The third thing that makes
good posts good is a strong hook. The
hook is the most important part of your
post. If you do not have a strong hook,
the rest of your post is pointless
because no one's going to watch it. If
you can't grab their attention and get
them to sit down and actually stop their
scroll, the rest of your post is wasted
breath. So the tip within the tip within
the tip is four different things that
you can do to improve your hooks. Number
one, keep them generally between five
and eight words long. It's okay if you
go a little bit longer. It's okay if you
go a little bit shorter, but 5 to eight
words is a good rule of thumb to stick
to. Number two, fifth grade reading
level. Similarly to the idea of the
drunk grandma, you want to simplify your
hooks so that they can grab attention
and be understood without any thought.
Number three is negative words in your
hooks outperform positive words. So
instead of saying the team won the game,
ESPN will say the team snapped a
three-game losing streak. Either way,
they're saying the team won last night.
But the second one uses more negative
words. Snapped losing, right? Or they'll
focus on the other team, the team that
lost. Using words like don't, stop,
avoid, loss, pain, these sorts of
things. Our human brain is
psychologically more likely to pay
attention when we see the negative.
Speaking of see, the fourth and final
tip for your hooks is that the visual
matters more than what you're actually
saying. Oftentimes, I will see business
owners and content creators use visuals,
things that are on the screen that have
absolutely nothing to do with what
they're talking about. For example, if
you are making a post about fitness, you
should not be sitting in an office. You
should not be driving a car. You should
not be sitting at a desk. You should be
in the gym. You should be doing the
exercise. You should be actively
exercising if your post is about
exercise. Again, all of that was tip
number three for what makes a good post,
which is strong hooks. The fourth and
final thing that makes a good post is
what I like to call the miniskirt rule.
Now, you have likely wondered, how long
should my posts be? How many seconds
should my reel be? You know what, pop
quiz. Which of these four options do you
think is correct?
Eh, wrong. None of them. There is no
one-sizefits-all for how long your
content should be. Instead, I want you
to stick to the miniskirt rule. And the
miniskirt rule is as follows. Your
content should be like a miniskirt.
There is no such thing as a
one-sizefits-all minikrt. Instead, your
miniskirt needs to be long enough to
cover what you need to cover, but it
still needs to be short enough to hold
attention. To say it another way, your
reels, your captions, the number of
slides in your carousel, they need to be
long enough to get the point across, to
tell the story, to deliver the message,
but no longer. They still need to be as
concise as possible in order to hold
people's attention, in order to retain
the viewer. So rather than forcing
yourself to be super short and cutting
yourself off and having to like bury all
your information in the caption or
conversely forcing yourself to be super
long-winded and fill unnecessary time, I
want you to focus on delivering the
value as concisely as possible. As long
as you need to to get the point across,
but still short enough to hold
attention. That's the miniskirt rule.
And that's the fourth key to making a
good post. Oh yeah, and then the fifth
and final thing that makes a good post
good is that it is shareworthy. At least
in terms of growing your Instagram, the
best kind of posts are shareworthy
posts. Shareworthy posts, as the name
implies, are posts that are worthy of
being shared. Or to say it another way
without using its own word in the
definition, posts that are good enough
to be sent from one person to another.
Now, what kinds of posts get shared?
There's a little acronym that I came up
with to help you remember. I have done
an entire episode of build your tribe in
the past. So, if you want an in-depth
tutorial for creating shareworthy
content, go check that out. But
essentially, shareworthy content is s
simple. We've already talked about that.
Hook. We've already talked about the
hooks. A authentic, which is one of
these buzzwords that everyone throws
around these days. How do you make a
post more authentic? You reduce the time
between idea and execution. The less
time that you can spend between, oh
yeah, there's that thing I want to post
about. There's that tip I want to share.
There's that idea that I wanted to make
a real about and actually posting it,
the better and the more authentic it
will be. R is relatable. Relatability is
another one of these buzzwords and
relatability is the second biggest
reason that people follow people on
Instagram and relatability comes from
specificity. What I mean by that is the
more specific you can get in your
struggles, your pain points, the more
specific you can get in your
storytelling, in your circumstances, in
the labels that you put on your memes,
the more relatable that content will be.
And then finally, E might be the most
important of all, and E is entertaining.
Far too often, especially business
owners, but business owners, content
creators, people with a personal brand,
they focus on a different E. And the
different E is education. They focus far
too much on making their content
educational because they've been hearing
for years, your posts need to be
valuable, and they do. But value doesn't
necessarily mean educational.
Educational content is oftentimes very
boring. Another tip, another free piece
of advice, another quick lesson. If we
feel like we can get it from ChatGpt,
we're not going to keep coming back for
more. And the reality is most people
feel like they can get any answer to any
question on YouTube or from a podcast or
from Google or from chat GPT. And so the
age and era of the information economy
is largely over. So stop focusing on
making educational content and start
focusing on how entertaining is this?
Would a stranger care to watch this? Was
this exciting? Was this engaging or
inspiring or motivating or captivating
to watch in the first place? Or was it
just sharing a quick tip? But like I
said, we can't just post good posts. We
have to post a lot of them. Which that's
kind of like a bonus tip in and of
itself is that the way you make high
quality content is you make a high
quantity of content. Practice makes
progress. The more you post, the better
your posts get. How do you make a
really, really good post on Instagram?
You post 300 not so good posts on
Instagram. But let's talk about how do
you post a lot? Because as I said
earlier, the more you post, the more you
grow. So, how can you achieve more posts
and thus more growth without burning
yourself out? Because you still have a
life to live. You still have a business
to run and you still have plenty of
other responsibilities. Oh, and you're
trying to be a normal human being and
have hobbies and passions and you're
trying to have a love life and you're
trying to do all these other things in
addition to growing on Instagram. So,
let's talk about it. Five tips for
scaling your output without changing
your input. Posting more and working
less. Number one, focus on
sustainability as a goal. Like if you
really need a number, I will set that
number at one post per day. That can be
your goal. But in reality, if you cannot
sustain one post per day because of your
life, your circumstances, your
availability, your resources, your
tools, whatever, then you're going to
kill yourself if you try to sustain one
a day. Instead, I want every single
person listening right now to decide for
themselves, what can you sustain? Maybe
it's one a day, maybe it's three a week,
maybe it's two a day. Find what you can
sustain, but then don't just stick with
what you can sustain. Challenge yourself
to do just a little bit more. And when I
say do just a little bit more, I don't
mean work harder. I don't mean burn the
candle at both ends. I don't mean
sacrifice your priorities. I quite
literally mean use the following systems
that I'm about to share with you in
order to create more content or post
more and push yourself a little bit more
than what you were sustaining before.
Because growth in life and on Instagram
comes when we push ourselves past what
we can easily sustain. Tip number two
for posting more and working less is to
fack perfection. If you're picking up
what I'm putting down, stop trying to
make perfect posts. I went on a little
rant about this earlier, but stop trying
to make perfect posts where you're
overanalyzing, overediting,
overpolishing, overrefining. Let me ask
you this. Have you ever, and this is for
those of you who have already been
posting on social media or maybe even
already posting on Instagram, have you
ever worked really hard on a post? You
thought it was great. You thought it was
amazing. You thought it might be the
best post you've ever made and then you
posted it and it was crickets silence.
Your lowest post of the week or the
month. Just horrible engagement. Yeah.
Right. What about the flip side of that
coin? Have you ever had a post you just
kind of like whipped up, you didn't
think much of, you posted it and it
ended up doing way better than the rest?
Maybe it even went viral. Yeah. So, that
is proof to all of us that we are all
horrible judges of our own content. And
not to get too lost in the sauce here,
but the reason that we're horrible
judges of our own content is because our
ego gets too involved. We're too close
to our own content. We can't see the
forest for the trees. And so, stop
overanalyzing, overediting, and trying
to make perfect posts. And embrace the
imperfect. Trying to make a perfect post
is rejecting your own humanity. You
can't make a perfect post. And a
imperfect post that is posted will
always beat a perfect post that's still
sitting in the drafts. So just press
post and that will help you feel more
free and less stressed to be able to
post more and worry less. Strategy
number three for posting more and
working less is to batch posts in
advance and schedule posts in advance.
Now, we already talked about this like
20 minutes ago when we were talking
about create 14 posts and then I had you
sign up for a scheduling tool and then I
had you schedule those 14 posts. That's
what I'm talking about. You need to be
doing that all the time. That's not just
like a right now before we get started
thing. That's a constant thing. I think
that you should post daily, but I do not
think that you should create daily.
Instead, I think that you should create
maybe a couple times a week, maybe two
or three times a week. Actually sit
down, script out some posts, film some
content, edit some reels, create some
carousels, and then schedule it for the
other days. That way on those other
days, if you're feeling inspired,
motivated, you're looking good, feeling
good, whatever, then you can film and
create new content. But you don't have
to force yourself to if you're not. If
you're having a bad day, if you're busy,
if life is lifing, then you don't have
to force yourself to create a post that
day. Because remember what I said
earlier about posts that are forced. But
if you followed these steps that I've
outlined for you in today's episode,
then you are already achieving this. You
are batching and scheduling posts in the
future. and it gets you off the hamster
wheel of having to create daily. Tip
number four for posting more is to come
up with repeatable formats. Repeatable
formats are basically kinds of posts or
styles of posts or topics of posts that
you can repeat over and over and over
again. I have a few that I commonly do
on my Instagram. One is what I call my
award reel. It's a real where I'm like
holding up an emoji of a trophy and it's
one video that I took in the summer of
2024 and I just continually reuse the
same video but change the text on the
screen to present the award to a new
group of people based off what's
trending or what's going on in pop
culture or what everyone's thinking
about right now. Another one of my
repeatable formats is my every
generation reel. So, I basically make a
parody of how every generation posts on
Christmas, how every generation posts on
Instagram stories, how every generation
posts on Halloween, and I can recycle
this and continue reusing this format,
and just changing up where the
generation is posting or what they're
posting in honor of. You could steal
both of these for yourself. You could
create a repeatable format where you
take a video of yourself holding up a
trophy or holding up an emoji of a
trophy, save that video, and then just
reuse that, changing up who the award is
for. You could reuse the generations
idea by coming up with how different
generations do something in your niche,
how different generations train for a
marathon, how different generations meal
prep, how different generations file
their taxes. And you can just create
these again as long as it relates to
your niche for each different
generation. And then our final tip might
be my favorite tip, which is upycling.
That is the fifth and final way that you
can post more and work less. And
upycling is essentially the idea of
recreating or literally just
re-uploading an exact copy of something
that you have previously posted. Now, I
used to say take your best posts and
recreate them or repost them. But now
what I say is take every post as long as
it's still relevant, as long as it still
makes sense, as long as it's evergreen,
right? I'm not going to tell you to take
your uh happy new year's post and repost
that in April, but as long as it's
evergreen and it's still relevant, post
every post thrice, three times, because
maybe the first time it just didn't
perform well. There's so many factors
and variables that can go into a post's
performance that you might not be able
to judge it based off of one or even two
bad performances. Additionally, most
people didn't see it the first time or
the second time. They didn't. Even for
me, someone who's got 800,000 followers,
I recognize even if a post goes viral,
most people didn't see it the first time
or the second time. And the few who did
probably don't remember because they're
seeing thousands of posts every single
day. I hardly remember what I posted
today. So, no, your followers probably
don't remember what you posted a few
months ago. Speaking of a few months
ago, I do recommend waiting at least 90
days before using this strategy. I don't
recommend re-uploading the exact same
post every single week or every single
month. It is usually good if you're
going to do an exact carbon copy of,
hey, I made this reel and I posted a few
months ago. Wait at least 90 days before
posting it again. That way, it kind of
has time to leave people's minds. It's
not right at the top of their mind. It's
something that they've forgotten about
or something they haven't seen in a
while. Or hopefully you've gained a
bunch of new followers between each
post. And so in those 90 days, you have
new followers who never even saw the
first one because they weren't following
you yet. But this upycling strategy is
something that I use for about 75% of
the posts in my feed. If you scroll
through my Instagram at any given time,
you won't find the exact copies cuz
they're way down there and buried. But
at any given time, about three out of
four of my posts are either re-uploads
or recreations. To say it another way,
only one out of four of my posts, only
25% of my content is a new fresh idea or
a new script or a new post that I've
never posted about before. If you follow
these eight steps, I guarantee that you
will grow on Instagram in 2026. And the
final thing that I will leave you with
is to stick with it. It takes time. Your
first 6 months will be slow, slow
growth. You're going to feel like you're
banging your head against the wall, but
stick with it. Somewhere between month 6
and month 12, if you stick with it, is
where you'll start to see some things
click. Some things will start to make
sense, and you'll start to have your
first successes on Instagram. But it's
probably going to take that long, if not
even longer. It might take even more
than a year before you have your first
real successes, your first real viral
post, your first, wow, hey, I'm I'm
actually growing my followers here. But
you never know when you're one post
away. So stick with it, keep showing up.
Ultimately, just press post. And as
always, happy networking.